# Library-Management-System-Searching-catalogues-in-library-using-binary-search-tree
Our main objective in this project is to create a library management system wherein students can issue books and the admin or librarian can update/delete the record of books kept in the library. So we have the system into two parts : from user’s perspective and from admin’s perspective. First of all, the admin must login to handle the accounts where the username and password are already set. After he has logged in successfully, he can add, delete and update the books. He can add any new book in the already existing list of books. Similarly he can also delete any existing book. In the update option, the admin can update the quantity of books as well as the name of the book. As and when the admin adds the books, a binary search tree will be created where the nodes contain the name of books and are put in sorted order. Now if a student wants to issue/return any book, then he/she must login into the system, by enetering their valid university ID. The student will be allowed to issue/return only if their ID matches the list of university ID’s of students. When the student enters the name of book to be issued, that particular book will be searched by it’s name, in the already created binary search tree. If the book is not found in the tree, then a message will be printed “Book is not available in the library”. And if the book is out of stock, then this message will be printed, “This book is currently unavailable. Please try after some days.” Moreover, the student cannot issue more than 2 books simultaneously. When the student issues a book, the issuing date and time is recorded by the librarian. And if the student misses the due date of returning the book, then he has to pay that particular fine.
